README.md, before:

# Porfolio

## Todos

[x] - Create the theme light
[x] - Continue with the Dark theme color
[x] - Update all the Figma file with
[x] - Deal with the Dark and Ligth Mode
[x] - Work on the grid
[x] - Basic Container
[x] - Window size hook
[x] - Document size hook
[x] - Work on the spacers
[x] - Icons
[x] - Fonts
[x] - FontStyle directly in css
[x] - Internal link
[x] - External link
[x] - Icon Button
[x] - Button
[x] - Button animation
[x] - Button underline postion css
[x] - Icon Button animation
[x] - Link animation
[x] - Header Component
[x] - Footer Component
[x] - Image
[x] - Vignettes
[x] - Independant Devices
[x] - Devices layouts
      [x] - Grouped
      [x] - DragFour
      [x] - DragFramless
      [x] - Repair the src (should be empty for loading states?)
      [x] - Repair ligns and sound on the phone
      [ ] - Responsive height jump bug in the Grouped Deviced
      [ ] - Flex Space-Even the Grouped Phone on Mobile
[ ] - Cards
      [x] - CardImage
      [x] - CardStatus
      [x] - Cardtitle
      [x] - Layout
      [ ] - UseMemo on the content
      [ ] - Card hovers animation
[x] - Turn loading into a non Button
[ ] - Add Link to: CardImage | InternalLink | Button
[ ] - Guidelines
[ ] - Add documentation to my functions
[ ] - Hero

---

Commit message:

useMemo implemented for the content

README.md, after:

# Porfolio

## Todos

[x] - Create the theme light
[x] - Continue with the Dark theme color
[x] - Update all the Figma file with
[x] - Deal with the Dark and Ligth Mode
[x] - Work on the grid
[x] - Basic Container
[x] - Window size hook
[x] - Document size hook
[x] - Work on the spacers
[x] - Icons
[x] - Fonts
[x] - FontStyle directly in css
[x] - Internal link
[x] - External link
[x] - Icon Button
[x] - Button
[x] - Button animation
[x] - Button underline postion css
[x] - Icon Button animation
[x] - Link animation
[x] - Header Component
[x] - Footer Component
[x] - Image
[x] - Vignettes
[x] - Independant Devices
[x] - Devices layouts
      [x] - Grouped
      [x] - DragFour
      [x] - DragFramless
      [x] - Repair the src (should be empty for loading states?)
      [x] - Repair ligns and sound on the phone
      [ ] - Responsive height jump bug in the Grouped Deviced
      [ ] - Flex Space-Even the Grouped Phone on Mobile
[ ] - Cards
      [x] - CardImage
      [x] - CardStatus
      [x] - Cardtitle
      [x] - Layout
      [x] - UseMemo in the Component, where the function is called, calling the CONTENT
      [x] - Add Keys to the map
      [ ] - Card hovers animation
[x] - Turn loading into a non Button
[ ] - Add Link to: CardImage | InternalLink | Button
[ ] - Guidelines
[ ] - Add documentation to my functions
[ ] - Hero

---
